# Categorizing Amino Acid Sequences Using Deep Learning

In recent memory, there has been an unprecedented surge in the fields of genomics and bioinformatics, as well as in new applications of machine learning techniques individuals are working towards that could greatly benefit society. My hope for my research is to bridge these realms and contribute towards the understanding of the functions of specific proteins and polypeptide chains. Though researchers have isolated countless of these, the majority remain a mystery, as biochemical analyses of newly discovered proteins remain challenging, expensive, and time-consuming. However, for a neural network trained to the most ideal parameters possible, recognizing the function of every protein involved across all human biological functions may eventually very well become an efficient and precise undertaking. The M.O. of the code around which my research revolves is to take the first step towards true recognition of function: simple categorization. Using the online UniProt database of known amino acid sequences listed by their associated biology-related keyword, the fully connected neural network copies its data from the URLs for certain selected keywords. These are the same keywords used in a Harvard paper (linked) examining a deep recurrent network's effectiveness at predicting protein function. After randomly fetching 350 polypeptide sequences each for two groups, those associated with and those known to be unrelated to the tested keyword, the architecture of the network creates its training and validation data sets and begins training. Aiming for the highest possible success in correctly sorting sequences into either of the groups without memorization or overfitting, I have observed validation accuracies of up to 87% for sequences related to GPCRs. I intend to even further contribute towards maximizing performance by modifying the network’s hyperparameters and structure as needed – all of which I plan to soon discuss at symposiums and in a research publication of my own.
